---
title: What can we learn from Gas Town?
subtitle: in the age of agency
published: false
---

I've spent the last few weeks in a [Gas Town][1] (and [Ralph Wiggum][2] and [loom][3]) rabbithole. It's easy to make fun of Gas Town's intentionally-opaque language, and of how _maximally vibecoded_ the whole project is; and it's tempting to dismiss Geoff as a flamebaiting take-poster, but I think (Steve and Geoff) are basically correct about the present and the future. I don't even begrudge them their quirks: I think [Steve Klabnik](https://steveklabnik.com/writing/how-to-think-about-gas-town/) is right that the inflammatory stuff is intentional: Yegge's goal isn't to drive adoption of Gas Town specifically, it's to nerdsnipe serious people into building an implementation that isn't stupid. He's said as much explicitly. When that's your goal, any publicity is good publicity.

[1]: https://steve-yegge.medium.com/welcome-to-gas-town-4f25ee16dd04
[2]: https://ghuntley.com/ralph/
[3]: https://github.com/ghuntley/loom

Anyway, I'm gonna try to step back and historicize a bit, drawing the rest of the owl, so that this stuff might be approachable to folks who aren't immersed in the meta.

## The kernel

The core idea behind all this stuff is _throughput_. In a normal Claude Code (or codex or whatever) workflow, you, the human operator, aren't fully utilized: when the agent is working, you aren't; there's a lot of downtime. By the same token, the agent isn't fully utilized, either. When you're thinking and typing prompts, it isn't doing anything. Worse, when you aren't at your desk it isn't doing anything either. You are the bottleneck.

Agent orchestration people assert that the only work that you, uniquely, as a human, _must_ do is design work. You want to be 100% utilized doing design. Any time you spend doing other things takes away from design time, which limits your throughput.

So what can we do about throughput? Let's make some observations.

- If the agent doesn't have work to do, it won't work. You should make sure the agent always has things to do.
- If you have to supervise the agent while it's working, you aren't doing the high-value design work that gives the agent more things to do. You should only give the agent tasks where it is very likely to succeed on its own, so that it can run unsupervised.

## Ground Truth

Here in 2026, this claim is obviously true:

> Agents like Claude Code, OpenCode, Amp, and Codex are able to complete economically-meaningful programming tasks by themselves, provided that the tasks are sufficiently well-specified and sufficiently small in scope.

Not all tasks, sure. If you report that the useful tasks in _your_ domain resist specification and downscoping, fine, I'm happy to stipulate to that. But remember that an economically signifcant portion of commercial software work is adding fields to crud forms, which the agents are great at.

The exact boundaries of sufficiency change (in one direction) over time as tooling and models improve, and, as we'll see in a few sections, are dramatically modulated by exactly how the agent is operated.
